Sit with your eyes closed, spine erect but not rigid.
Rest your hands on your thighs with palms facing up, index fingertips touching the tip of each thumb for the first three chakras, touching the middle joint of each thumb for the fourth & fifth chakras and the base of the thumb for the sixth & seventh chakras.
If you wish you may touch the tip of the tongue to the roof of your mouth. Take several long, slow, easy deep breaths breathing through your nose, until your body becomes calm. Sit during this meditation. Do not lie down. 
As we come to each chakra, focus your attention on the indicated area of your body. With each exhale chant the mantra that is given in a slow, elongated fashion. Begin with the root chakra (Mooladhara) and work upward to the Crown (Sahasrara). At the end always allow the energy to ground, flowing down through your body, and spend a few minutes in meditation or lie on your back in shavasan.
 
1. Begin with the Mooladhara chakra, located at the perineum, midway between your anus and genitals.
Say "Om Mooladhara".
Visualize its red color. Slowly repeat "Lang" (pronounced lung) for a few minutes, then visualize the chakra turning liquid gold as you say "Kundalini, arohanum" several times.
 
2. The Swadhisthana chakra, located in the genital region or at the base of the spine.
Say "Om Swadhisthana".
Visualize its orange color. Say "Vang" (pronounced vung) for a few minutes, then visualize the chakra turning liquid gold as you say "Kundalini, arohanum" several times.
 
3. The Manipura chakra, located at the navel.
Say "Om Sri Mani Padme Hum".
Visualize its yellow color. Say "Rang" (pronounced rung) for a few minutes, then visualize the chakra turning liquid gold as you say "Kundalini, arohanum" several times.
 
4. The Anahata chakra, in the center of your chest, your spiritual heart.
Say "Om Anahata".
Visualize its green color. Say "Yang" (pronounced yung) for a few minutes, then visualize the chakra turning liquid gold as you say "Kundalini, arohanum" several times.
 
5. The Vishuddhi chakra, located in your throat, at the Adam's apple or the epiglottis.
Say "Om Vishuddhi".
Visualize its blue color. Say "Hang" (pronounced hung) for a few minutes, then visualize the chakra turning liquid gold as you say "Kundalini, arohanum" several times.
 
6. The Ajneya chakra, located between our eyebrows.
Say "Om Ajneya".
Visualize its indigo color, the color of the original Levi blue jeans prior to washing them. Say "AUM" in a 3-2-1 ratio. "A-A-A-O-O-M" for a few minutes, then visualize the chakra turning liquid gold as you say "Kundalini, arohanum" several times.
 
7. The Sahasrara chakra, located at the center of the top of your head.
Say "Om Sahasrara".
Visualize its violet color, pastel purple.
Say "Ogum Satyam Om" for a few minutes, then visualize the chakra turning liquid gold as you say "Kundalini, arohanum" several times.
 
Lie Down in Shavasan
 
Lie down with your eyes closed immediately after the meditation, and relax for at least 10 or 20 minutes, or as long as you like. Yoga's Corpse Pose, Shavasan, is good for this (eyes closed, on your back with arms loosely to the sides, palms up, legs slightly apart). Let go. Enjoy. Notice the dynamics of the energy in your body as the kundalini flows.

